Yeah, I think this has really been an
amazing partnership through every phase.
Uh we had kind of no idea where it was
all going to go when we started as Satia
said. Uh but I I don't think I think
this is one of the great tech
partnerships uh ever and without
certainly without Microsoft and
particularly SA's early conviction uh we
would not have been able to do this.
[music]
What a week. What a week. Great to see
you both. Um Sam, how's the baby?
>> Baby is great. That's the best thing
ever, man. Every every cliche is true
and it is the best thing ever.
>> Uh hey Sacha, with all your time
>> smile on Sam's face whenever he talks
about uh it's just his his baby is just
so different. It's dad that and compute
I guess when he talks about compute and
his baby. [laughter]
>> U well Sachi have you given him any dad
tips with all this time you guys have
spent together?
>> I said just enjoy it. I mean it's so
awesome that uh you know I you know we
had our babies or what our children so
young and I wish I could redo it. So in
some sense it's just the most precious
time and as they grow it's just so
wonderful. I'm so glad Sam is um
>> I'm happy to be doing it older, but I do
think sometimes, man, I wish I had the
energy when I was like 25. Uh that
part's harder.
>> No doubt about it. What's the average
age at Open AI, Sam? Any idea? It's
young.
>> It's not crazy young. Not Not like Not
like most Silicon Valley startups. I
don't know, maybe low 30s average.
>> Are babies t is it are babies trending
positively or negatively?
>> Babies trending positively.
>> Oh, that's good. That's good. Yeah.
>> Well, you guys, such a big week. You
know, I was thinking about I started at
Nvidia's GTC, you know, just hit $5
trillion. Google, Meta, Microsoft,
Satcha, you had your earnings yesterday,
you know, and we heard consistently not
enough compute, not enough compute, not
enough compute. We got rate cuts on
Wednesday. The GDP's tracking near 4%.
And then I was just saying to Sam, you
know, the president's cut these massive
deals in Malaysia, South Korea, Japan,
sounds like with China. you know, deals
that really incredibly provide the
financial firepower to re-industrialize
America. 80 billion for new nuclear
fision, all the things that you guys
need to build more compute, but
certainly wasn't what wasn't lost in all
of this was you guys had a big
announcement on Tuesday that clarified
your partnership. Congrats on that. And
I thought we'd just start there. I
really want to just break down the deal
in really simple plain language to make
sure I understand it and and and others
but you know we'll just start with your
investment Satcha you know Microsoft
started investing in 2019 has invested
in the ballpark at 134 billion into open
AI and for that you get 27% of the
business ownership in the business on a
fully diluted basis I think it was about
a third and you took some dilution over
the course of last year with all the
investment
So, does that sound about right in terms
of ownership?
>> Yeah, it does. But I I would say before
even our stake in it, Brad, I think
what's pretty unique about OpenAI is the
fact that as part of OpenAI's process of
restructuring, one of the largest
nonprofit gets created. I mean, let's
not forget that, you know, in some sense
I say at Microsoft, like I, you know, we
are very proud of the fact that we were,
we're associated with the two of the
largest nonprofits, the Gates Foundation
and now the OpenAI Foundation. So,
that's I think the big news. Uh, we
obviously were, you know, are thrilled.
It's not what we thought. And as I said
to somebody, it's not like when we first
invested our billion dollars that, oh,
this is going to be the 100 bagger that
I'm going to be talking about to VCs
about, but here we are. But we are very
thrilled to be an investor and an early
backer. Um and and it's a great and it's
a really a testament to what Sam and
team have done quite frankly. I mean
they obviously had the vision early
about what this technology could do and
they ran with it and just executed you
know in a masterful way.
>> Yeah. I think this has really been an
amazing partnership through every phase.
Uh we had kind of no idea where it was
all going to go when we started as Satia
said. Uh but I I don't think I think
this is one of the great tech
partnerships uh ever and without
certainly without Microsoft and
particularly Sant's early conviction uh
we would not have been able to do this.
I don't think there were a lot of other
people that would have uh been willing
to take that kind of a bet given what
the world looked like at the time. Um we
didn't know exactly how the tech was
going to go. Well, not exactly. We
didn't know at all how the tech was
going to go. We just had a lot of
conviction in this this one idea of
pushing on on deep learning and trusting
that if we could do that, we'd figure
out ways to make wonderful products and
create a lot of value and also, as Satia
said, create what we believe will be the
largest nonprofit ever. And I think it's
going to do amazingly great things. It
it was I I really like the structure
because it lets the nonprofit grow in
value while the PBC is able to get the
capital that it needs to keep scaling. I
don't think the nonprofit would be able
to be this valuable if we didn't come up
with the structure and if we didn't have
partners around the table that were
excited for it to work this way. But,
you know, I think it's been six more
than six years since we first started
this partnership and uh a pretty crazy
amount of achievement for six years and
I think much much more to come. I hope
that Sasha makes a trillion dollars on
the investment, not hundred billion, you
know, whatever it is.
>> Well, as part of the restructuring, you
guys talked about it. You have this
nonprofit on top and a public benefit
corp below. It's pretty insane. The
nonprofit is already capitalized with
$130 billion. $130 billion of Open AI
stock. It's one of the largest in the
world out of the gates. It could end up
being much much larger. The California
Attorney General said they're not going
to object to it. You already haveund
this 130 billion dedicated to making
sure that AGI benefits all of humanity.
You announced that you're going to
direct the first 25 billion to health
and AI security and resilience. Sam,
first let me just say, you know, as
somebody who participates in the
ecosystem, kudos to you both. It's
incredible this contribution to the
future of AI. But Sam, talk to us a bit
about the importance of the the choice
around health and and resilience. And
then help us understand how do we make
sure that you get maximal benefit
without it getting weighted down as
we've seen with so many nonprofits with
its own political biases.
>> Yeah. First of all, the the best way to
create a bunch of value for the world is
hopefully what we're we've already been
doing, which is to make these amazing
tools and just let people use them. And
I think capitalism is great. I think
companies are great. I think people are
doing amazing work getting advanced AI
into the hands of a lot of people and
companies. They're doing incredible
things. There are some areas where the I
think market forces don't quite work for
what's in the best interest of people
and you do need to do things in a
different way. Uh there are also some
new things with this technology that
just haven't existed before like the
potential to use AI to do science at a
rapid clip like really truly automated
discovery. And when we thought about the
areas we wanted to first focus on,
clearly if we can cure a lot of disease
and make the data and information for
that broadly available, that would
that'd be a wonderful thing to do for
the world. And then on this point of AI
resilience, I do think some things may
get a little strange and they won't all
be addressed by companies doing their
thing. So as the world has to navigate
through this transition, if we can fund
some work to help with that, and that
could be, you know, cyber defense, that
could be AI safety research, that could
be economic studies, all of these
things, helping society get through this
transition smoothly. We're very
confident about how great it can be on
the other side, but you know, I'm sure
there will be some choppiness along the
way.
>> Let's keep busting through the the the
um the deal. So models and exclusivity
Sam OpenAI can distribute its models uh
its leading models on Azure but I don't
think you can distribute them on any
other leading the big clouds for seven
years until 2032 but that would end
earlier if AGI is verified. We can come
back to that but you can distribute your
open source models Sora agents codecs
wearables everything else on other
platforms. So Sam, I assume this means
no chat GPT or GPT6 on Amazon or Google.
>> No. So, so we have a C. First of all, we
want to do lots of things together to
help, you know, create value for
Microsoft. We want them to do lots of
things for to create value for us. And
there are many many things that'll
happen in that category. Um, we are
keeping what Satia termed once and I
think it's a great phrase of stateless
APIs on Azure exclusively through 2030.
And everything else we're going to, you
know, distribute elsewhere and that's
obviously in Microsoft's interest, too.
So, we'll put lots of products, lots of
places, and then this thing we'll we'll
do on Azure and people can get it there
or or via us. And I think that's great.
>> And then the rev share, there's still a
rev share that gets paid by OpenAI to
Microsoft on all your revenues that also
runs until 2032 or until AGI is
verified. So, let's just assume for the
sake of argument, I know this is
pedestrian, but it's important that the
rev share is 15%. So that would mean if
you had 20 billion in revenue that
you're paying three billion to Microsoft
and that counts as revenue to Azure.
Satcha, is that does that sound about
right?
>> Yeah, we have a rev share and I think as
you characterized it is either going to
AGI or till the end of the term. Uh and
I actually don't know exactly where we
count it quite honestly whether it goes
into Azure or somewhere else. That's a
good question. It's a good question for
Amy. Given that both exclusivity and the
revshare end early in the case AGI is
verified, it seems to make AGI a pretty
big deal. And as I understand it, you
know, if if OpenAI claimed AGI, it
sounds like it goes to an expert panel.
And you guys basically select a jury
who's got to make a relatively quick
decision whether or not AGI has been
reached. Satcha, you said on yesterday's
earning call that nobody's even close to
getting to AGI and you don't expect it
to happen anytime soon. You talked about
this spiky and jagged intelligence. Sam,
I've heard you perhaps sound a little
bit more bullish on, you know, when we
might get to AGI. So, I guess the
question is to you both. Do you worry
that over the next two or three years
we're going to end up having to call in
the jury to effectively make a uh a call
on whether or not we've hit AGI?
>> I I realize you got to try to make some
drama between us here. I [laughter]
>> you know, I think putting a process in
place for this is a good thing to do. I
expect that the technology will take
several surprising twists and turns and
we will continue to be good partners to
each other and figure out what makes
sense.
>> That's well said. I think uh and that's
one of the reasons why I think this
process we put in place is a good one
and at the end of the day I'm a big
believer in the fact that intelligence
uh capability wise is going to continue
to improve and our real goal quite
frankly is that which is how do you put
that in the hands of people and
organizations so that they can get the
maximum benefits and that was the
original mission of open AI that
attracted me to open AAI and Sam and
team and that's kind of what we plan to
continue on
>> Brad to say the obvious if we had super
intelligence tomorrow, we would still
want Microsoft's help getting this
product out into people's hands and we
want them like Yeah,
>> of course. Of course. Yeah. No, it again
I'm asking the questions I know that are
on people's minds and that makes a ton
of sense to me. Obviously s Microsoft is
one of the largest distribution
platforms in the world. You guys have
been great partners for a long time. But
I think it dispels some of the myths
that are out there. But let's shift
gears a little bit. You know, obviously
OpenAI is one of the fastest growing
companies in history. Satcha, you said
on the pod a year ago, this pod, that
every new phase shift creates a new
Google and the Google of this phase
shift is already known and it's open AI.
And none of this would have been
possible had you guys not made these
these huge bets. With all that said, you
know, OpenAI's revenues are still a
reported 13 billion in 2025. And Sam, on
your live stream this week, you talked
about this massive commitment to
compute, right? 1.4 4 trillion over the
next four or five years with you know
big commitments 500 million to Nvidia
300 million to AMD and Oracle 250
billion to Azure. So I think the single
biggest question I've heard all week and
and hanging over the market is how you
know how can a company with 13 billion
in revenues make 1.4 4 trillion of spend
commitments, you know, and and and
you've heard the criticism, Sam.
>> First of all, we're doing well more
revenue than that. Second of all, Brad,
if you want to sell your shares, I'll
find you a buyer. [laughter]
>> I just enough like, you know, people are
I I think there's a lot of people who
would love to buy OpenAI shares. I don't
I don't think you
>> including myself, including myself,
>> people who talk with a lot of like
breathless concern about our comput
stuff or whatever that would be thrilled
to buy shares. So I think we we could
sell you know your shares or anybody
else's to some of the people who are
making the most noise on Twitter
whatever about this very quickly. We do
plan for revenue to grow steeply.
Revenue is growing steeply. We are
taking a forward bet that it's going to
continue to grow grow and that not only
will Chhatabt keep growing but we will
be able to become one of the important
AI clouds that our consumer device
business will be a significant and
important thing that AI that can
automate science will create huge value.
So, you know, there are not many times
that I want to be a public company, but
one of the rare times it's appealing is
when those people are writing these
ridiculous OpenAI is about to go out of
business and, you know, whatever. I
would love to tell them they could just
short the stock and I would love to see
them get burned on that. Um, but
you know, I we carefully plan, we
understand where the technology, where
the capability is going to grow, go and
and how the products we can build around
that and the revenue we can generate. we
might screw it up like this is the bet
that we're making and we're taking a
risk along with that. A certain risk is
if we don't have the compute, we will
not be able to generate the revenue or
make the models at these at this kind of
scale.
>> Exactly. And
>> let me just say one thing uh Brad as
both a partner and um an investor there
is not been a single business plan that
I've seen from OpenAI that they have put
in and not beaten it. So in some sense
this is the one place where you know in
terms of their growth and just even the
business it's been unbelievable
execution quite frankly I mean obviously
openai everyone talks about all the
success in the usage and what have you
but even um I would say all up uh the
business execution has been just pretty
unbelievable. I heard Greg Brockman say
on C CBC a couple weeks ago, right? If
we could 10x our compute, we might not
have 10x more revenue, but we'd
certainly have a lot more revenue
>> simply because of lack of compute power.
Things like, yeah, it's just it's really
wild when I just look at how much we are
held back. And in many ways, we have,
you know, we've scaled our compute
probably 10x over the past year, but if
we had 10x more compute, I don't know if
we'd have 10x more revenue, but I don't
think it'd be that far. And we heard
this from you as well last night Satcha
that you were compute constrained and
growth would have been higher even if if
you had more compute. So help us
contextualize Sam maybe like how compute
constrained do you feel today and do you
when you look at the buildout over the
course of the next two to three years do
you think you'll ever get to the point
where you're not compute constrained?
>> We talk about this question of is there
ever enough compute a lot. I I think the
answer is
the only the best way to think about
this is like a
energy or something. You can talk about
demand for energy at a certain price
point, but you can't talk about demand
for energy without talking about at
different
you know different demand at different
price levels. If the price of compute
per like unit of intelligence or
whatever, however you want to think
about it, fell by a factor of a 100
tomorrow, you would see usage go up by
much more than 100 and there'd be a lot
of things that people would love to do
with that compute that just make no
economic sense at the current cost, but
there would be new kind of demand. So I
think the the
now on the other hand as the models get
even smarter and you can use these
models to cure cancer or discover novel
physics or drive a bunch of humanoid
robots to construct a space station or
whatever crazy thing you want then maybe
there's huge willingness to pay a much
higher rate cost per unit of
intelligence for a much higher level of
intelligence that we don't know yet but
I would bet there will be. So I I think
when you talk about capacity it's it's
like a you know cost per unit and you
know capability per unit and you have to
kind of without those curves it's sort
of a madeup it's not a super well
specified problem.
>> Yeah. I mean I think the one thing that
you know Sam you've talked about which I
think is the right way is to think about
is that if intelligence is what a log of
compute then you try and really make
sure you keep getting efficient and so
that means the tokens per dollar per
watt uh and the economic value that the
society gets out of it is what we should
maximize and reduce the costs and so
that's where if you sort of where like
the Jevans paradox point is that right
which is you keep reducing it
commoditizing in some sense intelligence
uh so that it becomes the real driver of
GDP growth all around.
>> Unfortunately, it's something closer to
uh log of intelligence equals log of
compute. But we may figure out better
scaling laws and we may figure out how
to beat this. Yeah,
>> we heard from both Microsoft and Google
yesterday. Both said their cloud
businesses would have been growing
faster if they have more GPUs. You know,
I asked Jensen on this pod if there was
any chance over the course of the next 5
years we would have a compute glut. and
he said it's virtually non-existent
chance in the next 2 to 3 years and I
assume you guys would both agree with
Jensen that while we can't see out 5 6 7
years certainly over the course of the
next 2 to three years for the for the
reasons we just discussed that it's
almost a non-existent chance that you
have excess compute well I mean I think
the the cycles of demand and supply in
this particular case you can't really
predict right I mean even the the point
is What's the secular trend? The secular
trend is what Sam said, which is at the
end of the day, because quite frankly,
the the biggest issue we are now having
is not a compute glut, but it's a power
and it's sort of the ability to get the
builds done fast enough close to power.
So, if you can't do that, you may
actually have a bunch of chips sitting
in inventory that I can't plug in. In
fact, that is my problem today, right?
It's not a supply issue of chips. It's
actually uh the fact that I don't have
warm shells to plug into. And so how
some supply chain constraints emerge
tough to predict uh because the demand
is just going you know is tough to
predict right I mean I wouldn't you it's
not like Sam and I would want to be
sitting here saying oh my god we're less
short on compute it's because we just
were not that good at being able to
project out what the demand would really
look like. So I think that that's and by
the way the worldwide side right one
it's one thing to sort of talk about one
segment in one country but it's about
you know really getting it out to
everywhere in the world and so there
will be constraints and how we work
through them is going to be the most
important thing it won't be a linear
path for sure there there will come a
glut for sure and whether that's like in
two to three years or five to six I
can't tell you but uh like it's going to
happen at some point probably several
points along the way like this is
there's something deep about human
psychology here and bubbles and also as
Satia said like there's it's such a
complex supply chain weird stuff gets
built the technological landscape shifts
in big ways so you know if
a very cheap form of energy comes online
soon at mass scale then a lot of people
are going to be extremely burned with
existing contracts they've signed it I
if if we can continue this unbelievable
reduction in cost per unit of
intelligence let's say it's been
averaging like 40x X for a given level
per year. You know, that's like a very
scary exponent
from an infrastructure buildout
standpoint. Now, again, we're taking the
bet that there will be a lot more demand
as that gets cheaper, but I have some
fear that it's just like, man, we keep
going with these breakthroughs and
everybody can run like a personal AGI on
their laptop and we just did an insane
thing here. Some people are going to get
really burned like has happened in every
other tech infrastructure cycle at some
points along the way.
>> I think that's really well said and you
have to hold those two simultaneous
truths. We had that happen in 20201 and
yet the internet became much bigger and
produced much greater outcomes for
society than anybody estimated in that
period of time.
>> Yeah. But I think that the one thing
that Sam said is not talked about enough
which is the current for example the
optimizations that OpenAI has done on
the inference stack for a given GPU. I
mean I it's kind of like it's you know
we talk about the MOS law improvement on
one end but the software improvements
are much more exponential than that.
Someday we will make a incredible
consumer device that can run a GPT5 or
GPD6 capable model completely locally at
a low power draw. And this is like so
hard to wrap my head around.
>> That will be incredible. And you know
that's the type of thing I think that
scares some of the people who are
building obviously these large
centralized compute uh stacks. And
Satcha you've talked a lot about the
distribution both to the edge as well as
having inference capability distributed
around the world. Yeah, I mean the way
at least I've thought about it is more
about really building a fungeable fleet.
I mean when I look at sort of in the
cloud infrastructure business, one of
the key things you have to do is have
two things. One is an effic like in this
context in a very efficient token
factory and then high utilization.
That's that's it. There are two simple
things that you need to achieve and in
order to have high utilization you have
to have multiple workloads that can be
scheduled even on the training. I mean,
if you look at the AI pipelines, there's
pre-training, there's mid-training,
there's post- training, there's RL. You
want to be able to do all of those
things. So, thinking about fungeibility
of the fleet is everything for a cloud
provider.
>> Okay. So, Sam, you referenced, you know,
and and Reuters was reporting yesterday
that OpenAI may be planning to go public
late 26 or in 27.
>> No, no, no. We we don't we don't have
anything that specific. I I'm a realist.
I assume it will happen someday, but
that was uh I don't know why people
write these reports. We don't have like
date in mind decision to do this or
anything like that. I just assume it's
where things will eventually go.
>> But it does seem to me if you guys were,
you know, are are doing in excess of
hundred billion dollars of revenue in 28
or 29 that you at least would be in pos
>> what?
>> How about 27?
>> Yeah, 27 even better. You are in
position to do an IPO and the rumored
trillion dollars. Again, just to
contextualize for listeners, if you guys
went public at 10 times 100 billion in
revenue, right, which would be, I think,
a lower multiple than Facebook went
public at, a lower multiple than a lot
of other uh big consumer companies went
public at, that would put you at a
trillion dollars. If you floated 10 to
20% of the company, that raises a
hundred to$200 billion, which seems like
that would be a good path to fund a lot
of the growth and a lot of the stuff
that we just talked about. So, you're
you're you're not opposed to it. You're
not But you guys are making fund the
company with revenue growth, which is
what I would like us to do.
>> But no doubt about it.
Well, I've also said I think that this
is such an important company and you
know there are so many people including
my kids who like to trade their little
accounts and they use chat GPT and I
think having retail investors have an
opportunity to buy one of the most
important and largest
>> honestly that that is probably the
single most appealing thing about it to
me. Um that would be really nice.
One of the things I've talked to you
both about um shifting gears again is
part of the big beautiful bill, you
know, Senator Cruz had included federal
preeemption so that we wouldn't have
this state patchwork 50 different laws
that mireers the industry down in kind
of needless compliance and regulation.
unfortunately got killed at the last
second by Senator Blackburn because
frankly I think AI is pretty poorly
understood in Washington and there's a
lot of dumerism I think that has gained
traction in Washington. So now we have
state laws like the Colorado AI act that
goes into full effect in February I
believe that creates this whole new
class of litigants anybody who claims
any unfair impact from an algorithmic
discrimination in a chatbot. So somebody
could claim harm for countless reasons.
Sam, how worried are you that, you know,
having this state patchwork of AI, you
know, poses real challenges to, you
know, our ability to continue to
accelerate and compete around the world.
>> I don't know how we're supposed to
comply with that California, sorry,
Colorado law. I would love them to tell
us uh and, you know, we'd like to be
able to do it, but that's just from what
I've read of that. That's like a I
literally don't know what we're supposed
to do. I'm very worried about a 50-state
patchwork. I think it's a big mistake. I
think it's there's a reason we don't
usually do that for these sorts of
things. I think it'd be bad.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think the the
fundamental problem of um you know, this
patchwork approach is quite frankly, I
mean, between OpenAI and Microsoft,
we'll figure out a way to navigate this,
right? I mean, uh we can figure this
out. The problem is anyone starting a
startup and trying to kind this it's
sort of it just goes to the exact
opposite of I think what the intent here
is which obviously safety is very
important making sure that the
fundamental um you know concerns people
have are addressed but there's a way to
do that at the federal level so I think
the U if we don't do this again you know
EU will do it and then that'll cause its
own issues so I think if US leads it's
better uh as you as one regulatory
framework
>> for sure.
>> And to be clear, it's not that one is
advocating for no regulation. It's
simply saying let's have, you know,
agreed upon regulation at the federal
level as opposed to 50 competing state
laws which certainly uh firebombs the
the AI startup industry and I think it
makes it makes it super challenging even
for companies like yours who can afford
to defend all these cases.
>> Yeah. And I would just say quite frankly
my hope is that this time around even
across EU and the United States like
that'll be the dream right quite frankly
for any European startup.
>> I don't think that's going to happen.
>> What is that?
>> That would be great. I don't I wouldn't
hold your breath for that one. That
would be great. No, but I I I really
think that if you think about it right,
if you sort of if anyone in Europe is
thinking about their you know what how
can they participate in this AI uh
economy with their companies uh this
should be the main concern there as
well. So therefore uh that's I hope
there is some enlightened approach to it
but I agree with you that you know today
I wouldn't bet on that.
I do think that with Sachs as the AIS
are, you at least have a president that
I think might fight for that in terms of
coordination of of AI policy, using
trade as a lever to make sure that, you
know, we don't end up with overly
restricted European policy. But we shall
see. I think first things first, federal
preeemption in the United States is
pretty critical. You know, we've been
down in the weeds a little bit here,
Sam. So, I want to telescope out a
little bit. You know, I've heard people
on your team talk about all the great
things coming up and and as you start
thinking about much more unlimited
compute chat GPT6 and beyond robotics,
physical devices,
scientific research as you as you look
forward to 2026, what do you think
surprises us the most? What what what
what are you most excited about in terms
of what's on the drawing board? you I
mean you just hit on a lot of the key
points there. I I think
codeex has been a very cool thing to
watch this year and as these go from
multi-our tasks to multi-day tasks which
I expect to happen next year what people
be able to do to create
software at an unprecedented rate and
and really in fundamentally new ways.
I'm very excited for that. I think we'll
see that in other industries too. I have
like a bias towards coding. I understand
that one better. I think we'll see that
really start to transform what people
are capable of. I I I hope for very
small scientific discoveries in 2026,
but if we can get those very small ones,
we'll get bigger ones in future years.
That's a really crazy thing to say is
that like AI is going to make a novel
scientific discovery in 2026. Even a
very small one. This is like this is a
wildly important thing to be talking
about. So, I'm excited for that.
Certainly, robotics and computer and new
kind of computers in future years.
That'll be that'll be uh very important.
But
yeah, my personal bias is if we can
really get AI to do science here, that
is I mean that is super intelligence in
some sense. Like if if this is expanding
the total sum of human knowledge that is
a crazy big deal.
>> Yeah. I mean I think one of the things
to use your codeex example I think the
combination of the model capability I
mean if you think about the magical
moment that happened with chat GPT was
the UI that met intelligence that just
took off right there it's just you know
unbelievable right form fact and some of
it was also the instruction following
piece of model capability was ready for
chat I think that that's what the codeex
and the you know these coding agents are
about to uh help us which is what's that
you know coding agent goes off for a
long period of time comes back and then
I'm then dropped into what I should
steer like one of the metaphors I think
we're all sort of working towards is I
do this macro delegation and micro
steering what is that UI meets this new
intelligence capability and you can see
the beginnings of that with codeex right
the way at least I use it inside a
GitHub copilot is I you know it's Now,
it's just a it's a just a different way
than the chat interface. And I think
that that I think would be a new way for
the human computer interface. Quite
frankly, it's probably bigger than
>> uh that that might be the departure.
>> That's one reason I'm very excited that
we're doing new form factors of
computing devices cuz computers were not
built for that kind of workflow very
well. Certainly, a UI like Chacht is
wrong for it. But this idea that you can
have a device that is sort of always
with you but able to go off and do
things and get micro steer from you when
it needs and have like really good
contextual awareness of your whole life
and flow. And I think that'll be cool.
>> And what neither of you have talked
about is the consumer use case. I think
a lot about, you know, again, we go
under this device and we have to hunt
and peck through a hundred different
applications and fill out little web
forms, things that really haven't
changed in 20 years. But to just have,
you know, a personal assistant that we
take for granted perhaps that we
actually have a personal assistant, but
to give a personal assistant for
virtually free to billions of people
around the world to improve their lives,
whether it's, you know, ordering diapers
for their kid or whether it's, you know,
booking their hotel or or or making
changes in their calendar. I think
sometimes it's the pedestrian that's
that's the most impactful. And as we
move from answers to memory and actions
and then the ability to interface with
that through an earbud or some other
device that doesn't require me to
constantly be st staring at this
rectangular piece of glass. I think it's
pretty extraordinary.
>> I think that that's what Sam was
teasing.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Hope we get it right. I got to drop off
unfortunately.
>> Sam, it was great to see you. Thanks for
joining us. Congrats again on this big
step forward and we'll talk soon.
>> Thanks for letting me crash.
>> See you Sam. Take care. See you.
>> As Samwell knows, we're certainly a
buyer, not a seller. Um, but but but
sometimes, you know, I think it's
important because the world, you know,
we're a pretty small, we spend all day
long thinking about this stuff, right?
And so conviction, it comes from the
10,000 hours we've spent thinking about
it. But the reality is we have to bring
along the rest of the world. And the
rest of the world doesn't spend 10,000
hours thinking about this. Um, and
frankly they look at some things that
appear overly ambitious, right, and get
worried about whether or not we can pull
those things off. You took this idea to
the board in 2019 to invest a billion
dollars into open AI. Was it a
no-brainer in the boardroom? You know,
did you have to expend any political
capital to get it done? dish dish for me
a little bit like what that moment was
was like because I think it was such a
pivotal moment not just for Microsoft
not just for the country but I really do
think for the world. Yeah, I mean it's
it's interesting when you look back the
the journey when I look at it it's been
a you know we were involved even in 2016
uh when initially open AI uh started in
fact Azure was even the first sponsor I
think and then they were doing a lot
more reinforcement learning at that time
I remember the Dota 2 competition I
think happened on Azure and then uh they
moved on to other things and you know I
was interested in RL but quite frankly
you know it speaks a little bit to your
10,000 hours or the prepared had mind.
Uh Microsoft since 1995 was obsessed. I
mean, Bill's obsession for the company
was natural language. Natural language.
I mean, after all, we're a coding
company. We're information work company.
>> So, it's when Sam in 2019 started
talking about text and natural language
and transformers and scaling laws.
>> Uh that's when I said, "Wow, like this
is an interesting I mean he, you know,
this is a team that was going in the
direction or the direction of travel was
now clear. it had a lot more overlap
with our interest. So in that sense it
was a no-brainer. Obviously you go to
the board and say hey I have an idea of
taking a billion dollars and giving it
to this crazy structure which we don't
even kind of understand what is it. It's
a nonprofit blah blah blah and and
saying go for it. Uh there was a debate.
Uh Bill was kind of rightfully so
skeptical because and then he became
like once he saw the GPD4 demo like that
was like the thing that Bill's talked
about publicly where uh when he saw it
he said it's the best demo he saw after
you know what Charles Simony showed him
at Xerox Park and but you know quite
honestly none of us could uh so the
moment for me was that you know let's go
give it a shot then seeing the early
codeex inside of uh copilot inside of uh
GitHub copilot and seeing just the code
completions and seeing it work. That's
when I would say we I I felt like I can
go from 1 to 10 because that was the big
call quite frankly. One was
controversial.
>> Uh but the 1 to 10 was what really made
this entire era possible and then
obviously uh the great execution by the
team and the productization on their
part, our part. I mean if I think about
it right the collective monetization
reach of GitHub copilot chat GPT
Microsoft 365 copilot and co-pilot you
add those four things that is it right
that's the biggest sort of AI set of
products uh out there on the planet and
that's um you know what obviously has
let us sustain all of this and I think
not many people know that your CTO Kevin
Scott you know an ex googler lives down
here in Silicon Valley and to
contextualize it right Microsoft had
missed out on search had missed out on
mobile. You become CEO, almost had
missed out on the cloud, right? You
you've described it, caught the last
train out of town to capture the cloud.
And I think you were pretty determined
to have eyes and ears down here so you
didn't miss the next big thing. So I
assume that Kevin played a good role for
you as well.
>> Absolutely.
>> Deep Seek and Open AI.
>> Yeah. I mean I mean if uh it's in fact I
would say Kevin's conviction uh and
Kevin was also skeptical like that was
the thing I I I always watch for people
who are skeptical who change uh their
opinion because to me that's a signal so
I'm always looking for someone who's a
non-believer in something and then
suddenly changes and then they get
excited about it that I have all the
time for that because I'm then curious
why what and so Kevin started with all
of us were kind of skeptical Right. No,
I mean in some sense it defies the the
you know we're all having gone to school
and said god you know there must be an
algorithm to crack this versus just
let's scaling laws and throw compute.
But quite frankly uh Kevin's conviction
that this is worth going after is one of
the big things that drove this. Well, we
talk about, you know, that that
investment that that's now worth 130
billion, I suppose, could be worth a
trillion someday, as Sam says, but it
really in many ways understates the
value of the partnership, right? So, you
have the value in the revshare, billions
per year going to Microsoft. You have
the profit you make off the $250 billion
of the Azure compute commitment from
OpenAI. And of course you get huge sales
from the exclusive distribution of the
API. So talk to us how you think about
the value across those domains
especially how this exclusivity has
brought a lot of customers who may have
been on AWS to Azure.
>> Yeah. No absolutely. I mean so to us um
if I look at it um you know aside from
all the uh the equity parts the real
strategic thing that comes together and
that remains going forward uh is that
stateless API exclusivity on Azure that
helps quite frankly both open AAI and us
and our customers uh because when
somebody in the enterprise uh is trying
to build an application they want an API
that's stateless they want to mix it up
with uh compute in storage, put a
database underneath it to capture state
and build a full workload and that's
where uh you know Azure coming together
with this API and so what we're doing
with even uh Azure foundry right because
in some sense you let's say you want to
build an AI application but the key
thing is uh how do you make sure that
the eval
are great so that's where you need even
a full app server in Foundry that's what
we've done and so therefore I feel that
that is the way we will go to market in
our infrastructure business. The other
side of the value capture for us is
going to be incorporating all this IP.
Not only we have the exclusivity of the
model in uh Azure but we have access to
the IP. I mean having a royaltyfree
let's even forgetting all the the
knowhow and the knowledge side of it but
having royalty-free access all the way
till seven more years gives us a lot of
flexibility business model wise. It's
kind of like having a frontier model for
free uh in some sense if you're an MSFT
shareholder. That's kind of where you
should start from is to think about we
have a frontier model that we can then
deploy whether it's in GitHub, whether
it's in M365, whether it's in our
consumer copilot, then add to it our own
data, post train it. Uh so that means we
can have it embedded in the weights
there. And so therefore we're excited
about the value creation on both the
Azure and the infrastructure side as
well as in our high value domains uh
whether it is in health whether it's in
knowledge work whether it's in coding or
security
>> you've been consolidating the losses
from open AI you know I think you you
just reported earnings yesterday I think
you consolidated 4 billion of losses in
the quarter do you think that investors
are I mean they may even be attributing
negative value right because of the
losses you know as they apply their
multiple of earnings. Satcha, whereas I
hear this and I think about all of those
benefits we just described, not to
mention the look through equity value
that you own in a company that could be
worth a trillion unto itself. You know,
do you think that the market is is is
kind of misunderstanding the value of
open AI as a component of Microsoft?
>> Yeah, that's a good one. So, I think the
the approach that Amy is going to take
is full transparency because at some
level I'm no accounting expert. So
therefore the best thing to do is to
give uh all of the transparency I think
this time around as well. I think that's
why the non-GAAP gap so that at least
people can see the EPS numbers because
the the the common sense way I look at
it Brad is simple. If you've invested
let's call it 13.5 billion. You can of
course lose 13.5 billion but you can't
lose more than 13.5 billion. At least
the last time I checked that's what you
have at risk. You could also say hey the
$135 billion that has you know today our
equity stake you know is sort of illquid
what have you we don't plan to sell it
so therefore it's got risk associated
with it but the real story I think you
were pulling is all the other things uh
that are happening what's happening with
Azure growth right would Azure be
growing if we had not sort of had the
openi partnership to your point the
number of customers who came from other
clouds
for the first time right this is the
thing that really we benefited from
what's happening with Microsoft 365. In
fact, one of the things about Microsoft
365 was what was the next big thing
after E5? Guess what? We found it in
copilot. It's bigger than any suite.
Like you know, we talk about penetration
and usage uh and the pace. It's bigger
than anything we've done in our
information work which we've been added
for decades. And so so we pretty feel
very very good about the opportunity to
create value for our shareholders. Uh
and then at the same time be fully
transparent so that people can look
through the what are the losses. I mean
who knows what the accounting rules are
but we will do whatever is needed and
people will then be able to see what's
happening. But a year ago, Satcha, there
were a bunch of headlines that Microsoft
was pulling back on AI infrastructure,
right? Fair or unfair, they're they were
out there, you know, and and and perhaps
you guys were a little more
conservative, a little more skeptical of
what was going on. Amy said on the call
last night, though, that you've been
short power and infrastructure for many
quarters, and she thought that you would
catch up, but you haven't c caught up
because demand keeps increasing. So I
guess the question is were you too
conservative you know knowing what you
know now and and and what's the road map
from here?
>> Yeah it's a great question because see
the the thing that we realized and I'm
glad we did uh is that the concept of
building a fleet that truly was funible
fungeible for all the parts of the life
cycle of AI funible across geographies
and fungeible across generations. Right?
So because one of the key things is when
you have let's take even uh what Jensen
and team are doing right I mean they're
at a pace in fact one of the things I
like is the speed of light right we now
have GB300's bringing you know that
we're bringing up so you don't want to
have ordered a bunch of GB200's that are
getting plugged in only to find that
GB2300s are in full production. So you
kind of have to make sure you're
continuously modernizing, you're
spreading the fleet all over, you are
really truly funible by workload uh and
you're adding to that the software
optimizations we talked about. So to me
that is the decision we made and we said
look sometimes you may have to say no to
some of the demand including some of the
open AI demand right because sometimes
you know Sam may say hey we build me a
dedicated you know big you know whatever
multi- gigawatt data center in one
location for training makes sense from
an open AI perspective doesn't make
sense from a long-term infrastructure
buildout for Azure and that's where I
thought they did the right thing to give
them flexibility to go procure that from
others while m maintaining uh again a
significant book of business from open
AAI but more importantly giving
ourselves the flexibility with other
customers our own one P remember like
one of the things that we don't want to
do is be short on uh is you know we talk
about Azure in fact some of times our
investors are overly fixated on the
Azure number but remember for me the
high margin business for me is co-pilot
it is security co-pilot it's GitHub
co-pilot it's the healthcare co-pilot So
we want to make sure we have a balanced
way to approach the returns that the
investors have. And so that's kind of
one of the other misunderstood perhaps
in our investor base in particular,
which I find pretty strange and funny
because I think they they want to hold
Microsoft because of the portfolio we
have. But man are they fixated on the
growth number of one little thing called
Azure. On that point, Azure grew 39% in
the quarter on a staggering $93 billion
run rate. And you know, I think that
compares to GCP that grew at 32% and AWS
closer to 20%. But could Azure because
you did give compute to 1P and because
you did give compute to research, it
sounds like Azure could have grown 41
42% had you had more compute to offer.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. There's no
question. There is no question. So
that's why I think the internal thing is
to balance out what we think again is in
the long-term interests of our
shareholders and uh and also to serve
our customers well and also not to kind
of you know one of the other things was
you know people talk about concentration
risk right we obviously want a lot of
open AI but we also want other customer
and so we're shaping the demand here you
know we are in a supply you know you
know we're not demand constraint we're
supply constraint so we are shaping the
demand such that it matches is the
supply in the optimal way with the
long-term uh view.
>> To that point, Satcha, you you talked
about 400 billion. It's incredible
number of remaining performance
obligations. Last night, you said that,
you know, that's your booked business
today. It'll surely go up tomorrow as
sales continue to come in. And you said
you're going to, you know, your need to
build out capacity just to serve that
backlog is very high. You know, how
diversified is that backlog to your to
your point? And how confident are you
that that 400 billion does turn into
revenue over the course of the next
couple years?
>> Yeah, that that 400 billion uh has a
very short duration as Amy explained.
It's the 2-year uh duration on average.
So that's definitely uh our intent.
That's one of the reasons why uh we're
spending the capital outcllay with high
certainty that we just need to clear
this backlog. And to your point, it's
pretty diversified both on the 1 P and
the 3P. our own demand is quite frankly
pretty high for our one first party uh
and even amongst third party one of the
things we now are seeing is the the rise
of all the other companies building real
workloads uh that are scaling uh and so
given that I think we feel very good I
mean obviously it's uh that's one of the
best things about RPO is you can be
planful quite frankly and so therefore
we feel very very good about building
and then this doesn't include obviously
the additional demand that we're already
going to start seeing including the 250
uh you know which will have a longer
duration and we'll build accordingly
>> right so there are a lot of new entrance
right uh in this race to build out
compute Oracle coreweave cruso etc and
normally we think that will compete away
margins but you've somehow managed to
build all this out while maintaining
healthy operating margins at Azure so I
guess the question is for Microsoft how
do you compete in this world that is uh
where people are levering up, taking
lower margins while balancing that
profit and and and risk. And do you see
any of those competitors doing deals
that cause you to scratch your head and
say, "Oh, we're just setting ourselves
up for another boom and bust cycle."
>> I mean, I'd say at some level the the
good news for us has been competing even
as a hyperscaler every day. You know,
there's a lot of competition, right,
between us and Amazon and Google on all
of these, right? I mean it's sort of one
of those interesting things which is
everything is a commodity right compute
storage I remember everybody saying wow
how can there be a margin except at
scale nothing is a commodity um and so
therefore yes so we have to have our
cost structure our supply chain
efficiency our software efficiencies all
have to kind of continue to compound in
order to make sure that there's margins
uh but scale and to your point one of
the things that I really love about the
OpenAI partnership is it's gotten us to
scale, right? This is a scale game. When
you have uh the biggest workload there
is running on your cloud, that means not
only are we going to learn faster on
what it means to operate with scale,
that means your cost structure is going
to come down faster than anything else.
And guess what? That'll make us price
competitive. And so I feel pretty
confident about our ability to, you
know, have margins. And and that this is
where the portfolio helps. I've always
said
>> you know you know I've been forced into
giving the Azure numbers right because
at some level I never thought of
allocating I mean my capital allocation
is for the cloud from whether it is Xbox
cloud gaming or Microsoft 365 or for
Azure it's one capital outlay uh and
then everything is a meter as far as I'm
concerned from an MSF perspective it's a
question of hey the blended average of
that should match the operating margins
we need as a company because after all
otherwise why we're not a conglomerate
we're one company with one platform
logic it's not running five six
different businesses we're in these five
six different businesses only to
compound the returns on the cloud and AI
investment
>> yeah I I love that line uh nothing is a
commodity at scale you know there's been
a lot of ink and time spent even on this
podcast with my partner Bill Gurley
talking about circular revenues
including including Microsoft Stasher
credits right to OpenAI that were booked
as revenue. Do you see anything going on
like the AMD deal, you know, where they
traded 10% of their equity and, you
know, for a deal or the Nvidia deal?
Again, I don't want to be overly fixated
on concern, but I do want to address
headon what is uh being talked about
every day on CNBC and Bloomberg and
there are a lot of these overlapping
deals that are going on out there. Do
you do you when you think about that in
the context of Microsoft does any of
that worry you again as to the
sustainability or durability of uh the
AI revenues that we see in the world?
>> Yeah. I mean first of all our investment
of uh let's say that 13 and a half which
was all the training investment that was
not booked as revenue. That is the that
is the reason why we have the equity
percentage. That's the reason why we
have the 27% or 135 billion. So that was
not something some that somehow that
made it into Azure revenue. In fact, if
anything, the Azure revenue was purely
the consumption revenue of chat GPT and
anything else and the APIs they put out
that they monetized and we monetized
>> to your aspect of others. You know, to
some degree, it's always been there in
terms of vendor financing, right? So
it's not like a new concept that when
someone's building something and they
have a customer who is also building
something but they need financing you
know for whether it is in you know it's
it's sort of some they're taking some
exotic forms uh which obviously need to
be scrutinized by the investment
community but that said you know vendor
financing is not a new concept
interestingly enough we have not had to
do any of that right I mean we may have
you know really uh either invested in
OpenAI and essentially got an equity uh
stake in it for return for compute or
essentially sold them great pricing of
compute in order to be able to sort of
bootstrap them. But you know others
choose to do so differently and uh and I
think circularity ultimately will be
tested by demand because all this will
work uh as long as there is demand for
the final out output of it and up to now
that has been the case. Certainly,
certainly. Well, I want to shift uh you
know, as you said, over half your
business is software uh applications.
You know, I want to think about software
and agents. You know, last year on this
pod, you made a bit of a stir by saying
that much of application software, you
know, was this thin layer that sat sat
on top of a CRUD database. The notion
that business applications exist,
that's probably where they'll all
collapse, right, in the agent era.
Because if you think about it right,
they are essentially
crowd databases with a bunch of business
logic.
The business logic is all going to these
agents. Public software companies are
now trading at about 5.2 times forward
revenue. So that's below their 10-year
average of seven times despite the
markets being at all-time highs. And
there's lots of concern that SAS
subscriptions and margins may be put at
risk by AI. So how today is AI affecting
the growth rates of your software
products of you know those core products
and specifically as you think about
database fabric security office 360 and
then second question I guess is what are
you doing to make sure that software is
not disrupted but is instead
superpowered by AI? Yeah, I think that's
a Yeah, that's right. So, the last time
we talked about this, my my point really
there was the architecture of SAS
applications is changing because this
agent tier is replacing the old business
logic tier. And so, because if you think
about it, the way we built SAS
applications in the past was you had the
data, the logic tier, and the UI all
tightly coupled. Uh, and AI quite
frankly doesn't respect that coupling
because it requires you to be able to
decouple. And yet the context
engineering is going to be very
important. I mean take you know
something like uh office 365. One of the
things I love about uh our Microsoft 365
offering is it's low arpoo
uh high usage right I mean if you think
about it right outlook or teams or
sharepoint you pick word or excel like
people are using it all the time
creating lots and lots of data which is
going into the graph and our arpoo is
low. So that's sort of what gives me
real confidence that this AI tier with I
can meet it by exposing all my data. In
fact, one of the fascinating things
that's happened uh Brad with both GitHub
and Microsoft 365 is thanks to AI, we
are seeing alltime highs in terms of
data that's going into the graph or the
repo.
>> I mean think about it. The more code
that gets generated, whether it is
codeex or cloud or wherever, where is it
going? GitHub, more PowerPoints that get
created, Excel models that get created,
all these artifacts and chat
conversations. Chat conversations are
new docs, they're all going in to the
graph and and all that is needed again
>> for grounding. Uh so that's what you
know you turn it into a forward index
into an embedding and basically that
semantics is what you really go ground
any agent request. And so I think the
next generation of SAS applications will
have to sort of if you are high RPO low
usage then you have a little bit of a
problem. But if you are we are the exact
opposite. we are low RPO, high usage and
I think that anyone who can structure
that and then use this AI as in fact an
accelerant because I mean like if you
look at the M365 copilot price I mean
it's higher than any other thing that we
sell and yet it's getting deployed
faster and with more usage and so I feel
very good oh or coding right who would
have thought in fact take GitHub right
what GitHub did in first I don't know 15
years of its existence or 10 years of
its existence it was basically done in
the last year just because coding is no
longer a tool. It's more a substitute
for wages and so it's a very different
type of business model even kind of
thinking about the stack and where value
gets distributed. So until very
recently, right, clouds largely ran
pre-ompiled software. You didn't need a
lot of GPUs and most of the value
acrewed to the software layer to the
database to the applications like CRM
and Excel. But it does seem in the
future that these interfaces will only
be valuable, right? If they're if
they're uh intelligent, right? If
they're pre-ompiled, they're kind of
dumb. The software's got to be able to
think and to act and to advise. And that
requires you know the production of
these tokens you know dealing with the
everchanging context. And so in that
world it does seem like much more of the
value will acrue to the AI factory if
you will to you know Jensen producing
you know uh helping to produce these
tokens at uh uh the lowest cost and to
the models and maybe that the agents or
the software will acrue a little bit
less of the value in the future than
they've accured in the in the past.
Well, steelman for me. Why that's wrong?
>> Yeah. So, I think there are two things
that are necessary to try and to drive
the value of AI. One is what you
described first, which is the token
factory. And even [clears throat] if you
unpack the token factory, uh it's the
hardware silicon system, but then it is
about running it most efficiently with
the system software with all the
fungibility, max utilization. That's
where the hyperscaler's role is, right?
What is a hyperscaler? Is hyperscaler
like everybody says if you sort of said
hey I want to run a hyperscaler. Yeah
you could say oh it's simple. I'll buy a
bunch of servers and wire them up and
run it. It's not that right. I mean it
was that simple then there would have
been more than three hyperscalers by
now. So the hyperscaler is the knowhow
of running that max util and the token
factories. And it's not and by the way
it's going to be heterogeneous.
Obviously Jensen's super competitive.
Lisa is going to come, you know, Hawk's
going to produce things uh from
Broadcom. We will all do our own. So
there's going to be a combination. So
you want to run ultimately a
heterogeneous fleet that is maximized
for token throughput and efficiency and
so on. So that's kind of one job. The
next thing is what I call the agent
factory. Remember that a SAS application
in the modern world is driving a
business outcome. it knows how to most
efficiently use the tokens to create
some business value. Uh in fact, GitHub
copilot is a great example of it, right?
Which is, you know, if you think about
it, it the auto mode of GitHub copilot
is the smartest thing we've done, right?
So, it chooses based on the prompt which
model to use for a code completion or a
task handoff, right? That's what you and
you do that not just by, you know,
choosing in some roundrobin fashion. You
do it because of the feedback cycle. You
have you have the eval, the data loops
and so on. So the new SAS applications
as you rightfully said are intelligent
applications that are optimized for a
set of evals and a set of outcomes that
then know how to use the token facto's
output most efficiently. Sometimes
latency matters, sometimes uh
performance matters and knowing how to
do that trade uh in a smart way is where
the SAS application value is. But
overall it is going to be true that
there is a real marginal cost to
software this time around. It was there
in the cloud era too when we were doing
you know CDROMs there wasn't much of a
marginal cost you know with the cloud
there was and this time around it's a
lot more and so therefore the business
models have to adjust and you have to do
these optimizations for the agent
factory and the token factory
separately. you have a big search
business that most people don't know
about, you know, but it turns out that
that's probably one of the most
profitable businesses in the history of
the world because people are running
lots of searches, billions of searches,
and the cost of completing a search if
you're Microsoft is many fractions of a
penny, right? Doesn't cost very much to
complete a search, but the comparable
query or prompt stack today when when
you use a chatbot looks different,
right? So I guess the question is
assume similar levels of revenue in the
future for those two businesses, right?
Do you ever get to a point where kind of
that chat interaction has unit economics
that are as profitable as search? I
think that's a great point because see
search was pretty magical uh in terms of
its ad unit uh and its cost economics
because there was the index which was a
fixed cost that you could then amortize
in a much more efficient way
>> uh whereas this one you know each chat
uh to your point you have to burn a lot
more GPU cycles uh both with the intent
and the retrieval so the economics are
different so I think you do that's why I
think a lot of the early sort of
economics of chat have been the premium
model and subscription on the even on
the consumer side. So we are yet to
discover whether it's agentic commerce
or whatever is the ad unit how it's
going to be litigated but at the same
time the fact that at this point you
know I kind of know in fact I use search
uh for very very specific navigational
queries I used to say I use it a lot for
commerce but that's also shifting to my
you know co-pilot like I look at the
co-pilot mode in edge and bing uh or
copilot now they're blend ending in. So
I think that yes, I think there is going
to be a relitigation just like that we
talked about the SAS disruption. We're
in the beginning of the cheese being a
little moved in consumer economics of
that category,
>> right? I I mean and given that it's the
multi-trillion dollar this this is the
thing that's driven all the economics of
the internet, right? when you move the
economics of search for both you and
Google and it converges on something
that looks more like a personal agent, a
personal assistant chat. Um, you know,
that could end up being much much bigger
in terms of the total value delivered to
humanity, but the unit economics, you're
not just advertising this one time fixed
index.
>> That's right.
>> And so, that's right. I think that the
consumer could be worse. Yeah. the
consumer category because you are
pulling a thread on something that I
think a lot about right which is what
during these disruptions
you you kind of have to have a real
sense of where is is the what is the
category economics uh is it winner take
all um uh and both matter uh right the
the problem on consumer space always is
that there's finite amount of time uh
and so if I'm not doing one thing uh I'm
doing something else and if your
monetization is predicated on some human
interaction in particular if there was
truly agentic stuff even on consumer
that could be different. Uh whereas in
the enterprise one is it's not winner
take all and two it is going to be a lot
more friendly for agentic interaction.
So it's not like for example the per
seat versus consumption. The reality is
agents are the new seats.
>> And so you can think of it as uh the
enterprise monetization is much clearer.
The consumer monetization I think is a
little more murky. You know, we've seen
a spade of layoffs recently with Amazon
announcing some big big layoffs this
week. You know, the Mag 7 has had little
job growth over the last three years
despite really robust top lines. You
know, you didn't grow your headcount
really from 24 to 25. It's around
225,000.
You know, many attribute this to normal
getting fit, you know, just getting more
efficient coming out of co and I think
there's a lot of truth to that. But do
you think part of this is due to AI? Do
you think that AI is going to be a net
job creator? And do you see this being a
long-term positive for Microsoft
productivity? Like it feels to me like
the pie grows, but you can do all these
things much more efficiently, which
either means you your margins expand or
it means you reinvest those margin
dollars and you grow faster for longer.
I call it the golden age of margin
expansion. I'm a firm believer that the
the productivity curve does uh and will
bend in the sense that we will start
seeing some of what is the work and the
workflow in particular change, right?
there's going to be more agency for you
at a task level to get to job complete
because of the power of these tools uh
in your hand and that I think is going
to be the case. So that's why I think we
are even internally for example when you
talked about even our allocation of
tokens we want to make sure that
everybody at Microsoft standard issue
right all of them have Microsoft 365 to
the tilt in the sort of most un uh
limited way and have GitHub copilot so
that they can really be more productive
but here is the other interesting thing
Brad we're learning is there is a new
way to even learn right which is you
know how to work with agents Right? So
that's kind of like when the first when
word, excel, powerpoint all showed up in
office, you kind of we learned how to
rethink let's say how we did a forecast,
right? Right? I mean, think about it,
right? In the 80s, the forecasts were
inter office memos and faxes and what
have you. And then suddenly somebody
said, "Oh, here's an Excel spreadsheet.
Let's put it an email. Send it around.
People enter numbers and there was a
forecast."
>> Similarly, right now, any planning, any
execution starts with AI. You research
with AI. You think with AI, you share
with your colleagues and what have you.
So, there's a new artifact being created
and a new workflow being created. And
that is the rate of the pace of change
of the business process that matches the
capability of AI. That's where the
productivity efficiencies come. And so
organizations that can master that are
going to be the biggest beneficiaries
whether it's in our industry or quite
frankly in the real world.
>> And so is Microsoft benefiting from
that? You know, so let's let's think
about a couple years from now. Five
years from now at the current growth
rate will be sooner, but let's call it
five years from now, your top line is
twice as big as what it is today.
Satcha, how many more employees will you
have if you're if you're if you grow
revenue by
>> like one of the best things right now is
these examples that I'm hit with every
day from the employees of Microsoft.
There was this person who leads our
network operations, right? I mean if you
think about the amount of uh fiber we
have had to put uh for like this you
know this 2 gawatt data center we just
built out uh in fair water right and the
amount of fiber there the AI and what
have you it's just crazy right so
>> and it turns out this is a real world
asset there are I think 400 different
fiber operators we're dealing with
worldwide every time something happens
we are literally going and dealing with
all these DevOps pipelines the person
who leads it she basically said to me
you what I there's no way I'll ever get
the headcount to go do all this. Not
forget even if I even approve the
budget. I can't hire all these folks. So
she she did the next best thing. She
just built herself a whole bunch of
agents to automate the DevOps pipeline
of how to deal with the maintenance.
That is an example of you to your point
a team
>> with AI tools being able to get more
productivity. So in if you are question
I will say we will grow a headcount but
the way I look at it is that headcount
we grow will grow with a lot more
leverage than the headcount we had pre
AI
>> and that's the adjustment I think
structurally you're seeing first right
which is one you called it getting fit I
think of it as more getting to a place
where everybody is really not learning
how to rethink how they work and it's
the how not even the what even If the
what remains the constant, how you go
about it has to be relearned. And it's
the unlearning and learning process that
I think will take the next year or so,
then the headcount growth will come with
max leverage.
Yeah. No, it's a I think we're on the
verge of incredible economic
productivity growth. It does feel like
when I talk to you or Michael Dell that
most companies aren't even really in the
first inning, maybe the the first batter
in the first inning in reworking those
workflows to get maximum leverage from
these agents. But it sure feels like
over the course of the next two to three
years, that's where a lot of gains are
going to start coming from. And again, I
you know, I I certainly am an optimist.
I think we're going to have net job
gains from all of this. But I think for
those companies, they'll just be able to
grow their bottom line, their number of
employees slower than their top line.
That is the productivity gain to the
company. Aggregate all that up. That's
the productivity gain to the economy.
And then we'll just take that consumer
surplus and invest it in creating a lot
of things that didn't exist before.
>> 100%. 100%. Even in software
development, right? One of the things I
look at it is no one would say we're
going to have a challenge in having, you
know, more software engineers contribute
to our sort of society because the
reality is you look at the IT backlog in
any organization. And so the question is
all these software agents are hopefully
going to help us go and take a whack at
all of the IT backlog we have and think
of that dream of evergreen software.
That's going to be true. and then think
about the demand for software. So I
think that to your point it's the levels
of abstraction at which knowledge work
happens will change. We will adjust to
that the work and the workflow that will
then adjust itself even in terms of the
demand for the products of this
industry.
>> I'm going to end on this which is really
around the reindustrialization of
America. I've said if you add up the $4
trillion of capex that you and these and
and so many of of the big large US tech
companies are investing over the course
of the next four or five years, it's
about 10 times the size of the Manhattan
project on an inflation adjusted or GD
GDP adjusted basis. So it's a massive
undertaking for America. The president
has made it a real priority of his
administration to recut the trade deals
and it looks like we now have trillions
of dollars. South Koreans committed $350
billion dollars of investments uh just
today into the United States. And when
you think about, you know, what you see
going on in power in the United States,
both production, the grid, etc., what
you see going on in terms of this
re-industrialization,
how how do you think this is all going?
and uh you you know maybe just reflect
on where we're landing the plane here
and your level of optimism for the the
the few years ahead.
>> Yeah. No, I I I feel very very
optimistic because in some sense, you
know, Brad Smith was telling me about
sort of the economy around a Wisconsin
data center. It's fascinating. Most
people think, oh, data center that is
sort of like, yeah, uh it's going to be
one big warehouse and there's, you know,
fully automated. Uh a lot of it is true.
uh but first of all what went into the
construction uh of that data center and
the local supply chain of the data
center uh that is in some sense the
reindustrialization of the United States
as well uh even before you get to what
is happening in Arizona with the TSMC
plants or what was happening with Micron
and their investments in memory or Intel
and their fabs and what have you right
there's a lot of stuff that we will want
to start building doesn't mean we won't
have trade deals that make sense for the
United States with other countries. But
to your point, the reindustrialization
for the new economy and take making sure
that all the skills and all that
capacity from power on down, I think is
sort of very important right for us. And
in and the other thing that I also say,
Brad, it's important and this is
something that I've had a chance to talk
to President Trump as well as uh
Secretary Lutnik and others is it's
important to recognize that we as
hyperscalers of the United States are
also investing around the world. So in
other words, the United States is the
biggest investor of compute factories or
token factories uh around the world. But
not only are we attracting foreign
capital to invest in our country so that
we can re-industrialize, we are helping
whether it's in Europe or in Asia or
elsewhere in Latin America and in Africa
with our capital investments, bringing
the best American tech uh to the world
that they can then innovate on and
trust. And so both of those I think are
really bode well for the United States
long term.
>> I'm grateful for your leadership Sam is
is is really helping lead the charge at
open AI for America. I think this is a
moment where I look ahead, you know, you
can see 4% GDP growth on the horizon.
We'll have our challenges. We'll have
our ups and downs. These tend to be
stairs, you know, stairs up rather than
a line straight up and to the right. But
I for one see a level of coordination
going on between Washington and Silicon
Valley between big tech and the
re-industrialization of America that
gives me cause for incredible hope.
Watching what happened this week in Asia
uh led by the president and his team and
then watching what's happening here uh
is is super exciting. So thanks for
making the time. We're big fans. Thanks.
Thanks Satcha.
>> Thanks so much Brad. Thank you.
[music]
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.